Nexus
-----

This project is designed to provide a scalable, reliable and efficient solution for storing
and retrieving files across multiple nodes in a distributed environment. Built with robust
backend in C++ and a modern, user-friendly web interface using HTML, CSS and JavaScript,
this system offers an intuitive way to manage files seamlessly across different machines.

Features
--------

- Scalability: Uses AWS S3 buckets as different storage nodes, due to which the storage can be
               scaled easily creating more buckets in different regions as required, the system
               is designed to adapt efficiently to such changes.

- Reliability: Ensures data redundancy and integrity through replication of same data to multiple
               nodes, ensuring data availability.

- Efficiency: The data is split into chunks which are then distributed according to an hash code,
              generated by an optimized hash function, ensuring the proper distribution and as well
              efficient retrieval of data.

- Security: Every chunk of data that gets transfered to the storage gets encrypted, and the same data
            is retrieved back at the time of retrieval which is only decrypted at the user retrieval request.

- Fault Tolerance: Every chunk is replicated to multiple regions ensuring the data availability even if
                   one or more server fails to respond to request.

- Caching: Efficient caching mechanisms are created, due to which multiple request of the same data
           can be processed at much faster rate.

- User-Friendly: An user-friendly web interface is provided to the user, which is powered by c++ backend
                 which leverages a REST Api library, [Crow](https://crowcpp.org/master/).
